In this end of chapter review lab,
we will take the Quarkus
conference application and modify
the microservice session
application to work as a client to
the microservice speaker
application to obtain
information about lectures
for particular sessions.
Starting with lab apps-
review start script,
going to the exercise
directory, that is DO378
/lab/apps-reviews
quarkus-conference/
microservice-speaker,
let's have a look at the
speaker application.
It's got a DAO object which actually
uses them back-end to retrieve,
well, first, create a
database and then of course,
keep the information about the
speakers in that database.
And as such, it is quite
a bit more complete in
the amount of information
that it contains
as current implementation
of the session application.
Looking at the speaker
model object,
we can see that speakers
are indeed entities.
They have a uuid, first name, last name,
organization, biography
picture, and a twitterHandle.
Now if we have a look at the
SpeakerResource around line 30,
we have got an endpoint
method called listAll,
which simply returns a listAll
results from the Speaker entity.
That is of course
an inherited method from PanacheEntity.
But this is actually the method that
the session service is going to
use when working with speakers.
Now, having a look at
the current model in the
microservice session application,
we can see that indeed
it does have an ID.
It has a name,
just the name and the uuid.
So currently, the data modelling in
the session application is
a lot weaker than in the
actual speaker application.
So what we are going to do is move
over to the microservice-session app.
And first of all,
create a new representation
of the speaker.
We will call it
SpeakerFromService
and we are going to make
sure that it matches
at least the 3 fields that we
need to display the speaker
in the sessions application.
So the first and the last name, of course,
we'll also be matching speakers by
uuid because that's how they're
assigned to the sessions.
We have got constructor and we have
got JsonbCreator constructor,
so static method really.
So this is how new instances
of the SpeakerFrom
Service class can be created
when we receive JSON
and we need to deserialize it
into an instance of this class.
The rest-client extension is
already added to the project,
so we don't need to use
quarkus add-extension for it.
We will however, refactor
the SpeakerService now.
So looking at the changes,
actually we first have to
create an interface for
the SpeakerService because
we will be using the listAll
method to obtain all
the speakers from it.
So this is essentially a
contract for the client to
use when invoking the
speaker microservice.
Note that we didn't add all the endpoints,
we just simply added the
listAll method with
the correct annotation and with
the correct endpoint address.
Now what we need to do is configure the
rest-client in application properties.
We will be adding a single line that will
configure the interface that we have just
created, the speaker service interface.
We will be telling it to use the rest
url on localhost on port 8082.
This is where we're going to be running
SpeakerService when we start
testing the application
and finally, the SessionStore
application component
needs a couple of modifications
namely, we are going to
add a Feature Toggle.
So if we want to enable
the session-integration,
we will turn the Feature Toggle on.
Otherwise we will still be
using the old method,
we'll fix the method a little bit later.
So let's focus on adding
the Feature Toggle
first simply by adding a @ConfigProperty.
Call it sessionIntegration
and then of course, making sure
that initially it's turned
off in the application.properties
by adding features.
session-integration equals false
to the application.properties in
the microservice-session application.
Going back to the SessionStore,
what we will be doing is first of all,
we have to inject the rest
client implementation.
So we will inject instance of
the SpeakerService interface
implemented by the RestClient,
of course.
Then we are going to replace the
original findById method.
We are going to replace a reference
to the repository DAO object,
which is here. We will leave it in,
we won't remove it because we want both the
old and the new functionality, right?
But we will refactor this single
line where we simply rely on
the fact that repository has
information about speakers
into either the search for the
speaker using the repository,
refactoring it into an optional.
However, if we have
sessionIntegration enabled and we do
find the speaker in the repository,
then we are going to also try to obtain
the speaker from the speaker service.
So we are not going to invoke the
speaker service unnecessarily,
if someone tries to obtain a
session ID without a speaker or
with a non-existent. Non-existent
speaker reference will
only invoke the downstream service,
if we actually have a result.
Then simply process the stream
and making sure that the service
speaker is found in the stream
and of course, replacing
the information found in the result with
the fully qualified name of the speaker.
So the speaker that is returned by the
repository.find method
is going to have their name replaced
by the data returned by our client
invocation of the speaker service.
Right!
So let's start everything up now.
Going to the quarkus-conference/ directory,
so that's one level above where
we were making code changes.
There is a start-locally script which
starts all the application components,
so the microservice-schedule,
the microservice-session,
and as we can see,
it also download some images,
initializes speakers
service and so on and so on.
When you see that the script
says Press enter to Terminate,
this is a sign that the application is up.
And we can move on to the web
browser opening localhost port 8080.
It may be that the left menu is
covering the list of sessions.
When you click Sessions in
the left menu, you may have to
close the left menu and then
select one of the sessions.
Without the feature of
the remote invocation,
we will only get the first
name from the Speaker.
This is the old data model.
If we go and modify
application properties and actually
change the features.session-
integration toggle to true
and we reload that page,
we will get the full name
of the speaker as returned
by the invoked downstream microservice.
So we can now grade
our exercise's success by invoking
lab apps-review grade script
and when it returns
success on both passes,
simply clean up everything by invoking
lab apps-review finish script.
And don't forget to terminate your
application by, actually your applications,
by actually pressing
Enter to terminate them,
such that they shut down and the
working directory is now removed.
This concludes the end of Chapter lab,
join us in the next video,
where we are going to talk about how to implement
fault tolerance in your Quarkus
applications. See you there.